DOC add scikit-learn MOOC and course materials on the FAQ page (#30469)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/presentations.rst

External Resources, Videos and Talks
===========================================

.. _mooc:

The Official scikit-learn MOOC
==============================

If you are new to scikit-learn, or looking to strengthen your understanding,
we highly recommend the **scikit-learn MOOC (Massive Open Online Course)**.

The MOOC, created and maintained by some of the scikit-learn core-contributors,
is **free of charge** and is designed to help learners of all levels master
machine learning using scikit-learn. It covers topics
from the fundamental machine learning concepts to more advanced areas like
predictive modeling pipelines and model evaluation.

The course materials are available at:

`<https://inria.github.io/scikit-learn-mooc/>`_.

This course is also hosted on the `FUN platform
<https://www.fun-mooc.fr/en/courses/machine-learning-python-scikit-learn/>`_,

> which additionally makes the content interactive without installation, and gives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which additionally makes the content interactive without the need to install anything, and gives
```

probably need to fix line length as its too long, but maybe something like this to make it clearer?

access to a discussion forum.

> The videos are available as a YouTube playlist on the
> `Inria Learning Lab channel <https://www.youtube.com/@inrialearninglab>`_:
> 
> `<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2okA_2qDJ-m44KooOI7x8tu85wr4ez4f>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The videos are available on the
`Inria Learning Lab channel <https://www.youtube.com/@inrialearninglab>`_ in
 a `playlist <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2okA_2qDJ-m44KooOI7x8tu85wr4ez4f>`_
```

just because the URL is long and not comprehensible

Videos
======

- `Machine learning in Python with scikit-learn
  <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2okA_2qDJ-m44KooOI7x8tu85wr4ez4f>`_
  by `Gael Varoquaux`_, `Arturo Amor`_, and `Olivier Grisel`_.

  These videos are part of the MOOC (Massive Open Online Course)
  "Machine learning in Python with scikit-learn" hosted on `FUN platform
  <https://www.fun-mooc.fr/en/courses/machine-learning-python-scikit-learn/>`_.

  The course materials are available at:
  `<https://inria.github.io/scikit-learn-mooc/>`_.

- An introduction to scikit-learn at Scipy 2013
  by `Gael Varoquaux`_, `Jake Vanderplas`_  and `Olivier Grisel`_.

  Video I:
  `Part 1 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r4bRUvvlaBw>`_,
  `Part 2 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hlaMiXCRxB0>`_,
  `Part 3 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XS4TIGe7MaU>`_.

  Video II:
  `Part 1 of 2 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uX4ZirOiWkw>`_,

>   `Part 2 of 2 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kTLyp10FD60>`_.

Author: I noticed that the original links were broken, so I took the opportunity to fix them.

Videos
======

- The `scikit-learn YouTube channel <https://www.youtube.com/@scikit-learn>`_
  features a

>   `playlist of videos <https://www.youtube.com/@scikit-learn/playlists>`_

Author: I couldn't use `playlist <https://www.youtube.com/@scikit-learn/playlists>_` here because the same target name was already assigned to the MOOC YouTube playlist, and Sphinx would issue a duplication warning.

Reviewer 2: Whatever works :wink:.

IIRC this is one of the horrible rst caveats and to avoid it you can use double underscore at the end, that avoids creating an automated reference or whatever docutils calls it.

Author: The double underscore works perfectly, and I've learned something new today! 💡 ✨ Thanks @lesteve!

Reviewer: You know what, I think we should add a little note about this to our contributing docs documentation. 

I know it's technically not our 'code' to document but this info is hard to find! I found no mention of it in the sphinx rst docs: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#hyperlinks

I only found it in the docutils rst docs: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#anonymous-hyperlinks

WDYT?

Reviewer 2: > You know what, I think we should add a little note about this to our contributing docs documentation.

My personal opinion about the contributing doc is that it is already waayyyy too detailed and confusing for newcomers, but other people may have other opinion.

Maybe adding a section about rst/sphinx caveats in [Developers’ Tips and Tricks](https://scikit-learn.org/dev/developers/tips.html) would be a better place, not sure ...

To be honest, it seems like the kind of thing that does happen rarely and that either you bumped into it already (and can almost never forget, given how surprising [^1] this is) or you discovered after 2 hours of debugging and are really annoyed about it :sweat_smile:.

[^1]: to put it nicely :speak_no_evil:

Reviewer: Alright, might just leave it then!

  showcasing talks by maintainers
  and community members.

- An introduction to scikit-learn at Scipy 2013
  by :user:`Gael Varoquaux <GaelVaroquaux>`,
  :user:`Jake Vanderplas <jakevdp>`  and
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`.

  Video I:
  `Part 1 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r4bRUvvlaBw>`_,
  `Part 2 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hlaMiXCRxB0>`_,
  `Part 3 of 3 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XS4TIGe7MaU>`_.

  Video II:
  `Part 1 of 2 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uX4ZirOiWkw>`_,
  `Part 2 of 2 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kTLyp10FD60>`_.

  Notebooks available on
  `github <https://github.com/jakevdp/sklearn_scipy2013>`_.

> 

Author: I've removed the link to the Whiteboard series. If there's a better alternative, I'd be happy to update it further.

Videos
======

> - The `:probabl YouTube channel <https://www.youtube.com/@probabl_ai>`_

Reviewer 2: I am a bit uneasy about adding a Probabl resource in general, and I am definitely uneasy because it is the first resource listed in the Videos and at the very minimum the official scikit-learn channel should be the first one listed.

This is a fine line to navigate and I would be more that happy to hear other opinions on this though ...

I agree that the [Whiteboard series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSIzlWDI17bS025ph6R0W_3RKM0qJ3qoO) is kind of relevant for scikit-learn and the videos I watched are good, but then we also open the door for PRs that want to use SEO optimization to have their scikit-learn content listed here and I am not very keen on opening this door ...

Reviewer 3: Alright, let's keep the videos restricted to conferences and talks given by core maintainers.

>   hosts the Whiteboard Series, which provides supplementary materials for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  hosts the `Whiteboard Series <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSIzlWDI17bS025ph6R0W_3RKM0qJ3qoO>`_,
  which provides supplementary materials for
```

again just because the URL is not comprehensible, but also open to showing full URL

>   the scikit-learn MOOC and covers more recent versions of the library:

Reviewer 3: Sorry I did not express myself correctly. The mooc also covers up to the latest release, I meant this playlist covers recent versions of the library w.r.t. the other videos listed in this section.
```suggestion
  the scikit-learn MOOC and covers more features of the library:
```

>   `<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSIzlWDI17bS025ph6R0W_3RKM0qJ3qoO>`_

Author: This links to the Whiteboard Series suggested by @ArturoAmorQ. Let me know your thoughts.

- The `scikit-learn YouTube channel <https://www.youtube.com/@scikit-learn>`_
  features a playlist of videos showcasing talks by maintainers
  and community members:

>   `<https://www.youtube.com/@scikit-learn/playlists>`_

Author: @reshamas, does this address #30653? If not, I’m happy to continue making adjustments.

- An introduction to scikit-learn at Scipy 2013
  by :user:`Gael Varoquaux <GaelVaroquaux>`,
  :user:`Jake Vanderplas <jakevdp>`  and

>   :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`.

Author: I've used `:user:` here, as we do in our changelog. I believe this is a more canonical choice, but let me know your thoughts.

.. _Gael Varoquaux: https://gael-varoquaux.info
.. _Jake Vanderplas: http://www.vanderplas.com
.. _Olivier Grisel: https://twitter.com/ogrisel

> .. _Arturo Amor: https://twitter.com/ArturoAmorQ

Reviewer 3: As much as I'm honored about the mention, I think it's no longer referenced elsewhere :)
